Let me explain Step 4: Keep Git Updated in detail, step by step.

Why This Step Is Important

Whenever you make changes to your project files (e.g., updating a script, adding new files, or fixing bugs), you need to:
	1.	Track those changes using Git (git add).
	2.	Save a snapshot of those changes locally (git commit).
	3.	Sync your changes with the GitHub repository (git push).

This ensures your project is always backed up and versioned properly.

Steps Explained

1. Stage Changes

The git add command tells Git which files should be included in the next commit.

Command:

git add .

	•	The . means “add all the changes in the current directory and subdirectories.”
	•	This includes new, modified, or deleted files.

2. Commit Changes

The git commit command saves your staged changes locally in the Git repository with a message describing the changes.

Command:

git commit -m "Your commit message"

	•	Replace "Your commit message" with a meaningful description of the changes. For example:
	•	"Added basic structure for extract_isocontour.py"
	•	"Fixed bug in VTK version check"
	•	"Updated .gitignore to exclude temporary files"

3. Push Changes to GitHub

The git push command uploads your committed changes from your local repository to the GitHub repository.

Command:

git push origin main

	•	Here:
	•	origin refers to the remote GitHub repository you linked earlier.
	•	main is the branch you’re working on (the default branch for most projects).

When to Use These Commands
	1.	After making changes to your files.
	2.	When you add new files to the project.
	3.	When you delete unnecessary files.

Example Workflow

Here’s how it works when you update a file:
	1.	Modify or create files (e.g., extract_isocontour.py in the scripts/ folder).
	2.	Check what has changed:

git status

This shows a list of modified, new, or deleted files.

	3.	Stage your changes:

git add .


	4.	Commit your changes with a message:

git commit -m "Added isocontour extraction logic"


	5.	Push your changes to GitHub:

git push origin main


	6.	Visit your GitHub repository to verify that the changes have been uploaded.

Let Me Know If You Want to Try This!

You can test it by making a small change (like adding a comment to README.md) and going through the workflow. Let me know if you need further clarification! 🚀